[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Spicy eggplant is-- it's one
of those dishes that is like
a complement.
A complement?
Yeah.
To an array of dishes.
So say I was having
dinner one night.
One night-- I have
dinner every night.
And I wanted something
a little bit more
with some heat in there and
a little bit more Asian kind
of flavors with the kaffir lime.
This is perfect,
and the sauce is
extraordinary, and even cold.
I've had it the next day with
bits of eggplant in my salad.
So it's really awesome.
I've got my hot plate on, as
you can see, here on the stove.
It's kind of smoking
a bit, which is cool.
I've got these amazing long
eggplants from the market
this morning, which are
really, really yummy.
And all I'm going to do is,
I'm going to cut these up.
I mean, these are just
extraordinary colors.
I'm going to cut these up
and I'm going to grill them.
I just want some color
here, and a little bit
of cooking as well, but
it's color I'm really after.
So I'm just going to cut
them longways, really
simply like this.
This is such a really
easy dish, inspired to me,
and taught to me by a
lady in Bali, actually.
Her name is Ayu.
And she showed me this recipe.
I was very grateful.
Now you don't need
to salt these.
You can if you feel they're very
hard and really, really young,
just cut a little bit off
there and have a taste.
Now that's very sweet, so it
doesn't need salting at all.
So they're ready.
The next thing I'm going
to do is make up the paste.
Now I've got these gorgeous
little shallots here from Bali.
They're so cute and small.
In Australia we get
bigger ones than these.
Sometimes you do see
these sizes in Australia.
But I've got these
ones the most.
We need a couple of them.
We need some chili,
some red chili,
and we need some garlic as well.
The eggplant's really
sweet, actually.
OK.
Just pop that back there.
I've got so much stuff
here from the market,
which is lovely to
have it all around me.
It's really beautiful.
OK.
So what I want to do is
just chop this up roughly,
because we're going
to blend this.
We're going to cook this and
then we're going to blend it.
Just really roughly.
Get some garlic cloves.
Spicy eggplant-- this is--
when I first had this,
I was so excited.
It rocked my world.
It really did.
There was a few
ingredients in here
from Bali that we don't
have in other countries,
so we've left them out, and
we've altered the recipe
so everyone can make it.
And you're still
getting that lovely hint
of that Asian feel through
there, that Asian flavors
through there.
OK.
Notice how sometimes I leave
the skins on and just chop,
and sometimes I don't.
It just depends
on what I'm doing
with that particular dish.
OK.
So there's my
garlic and my chili.
Now I'm going to do
the shallots, which
I'm going to take
the ends off like so,
and then just take
that first slice.
They're not at sharp in
flavor as onion and garlic,
even red onion.
They're a softer, more
gentle, sweet flavor,
these little shallots are.
Perfect.
Now I'm just going to
roughly chop them like that.
And I'm going to put
all of these ingredients
into a glass bowl, ready to go.
Some skins and garlic
in there as well--
skins from the garlic
in there as well.
All right.
Put that over there.
And the next thing I want
is kaffir lime leaves.
Kaffir lime leaves are so
fragrant and so delicious,
and they're also expensive.
So when I buy them--
as you can see, my freezer's
all of these herbs.
I freeze them-- really good tip.
There's so many herbs
in that freezer.
There's curry leaves, there's
lemongrass, there's ginger,
there's turmeric, just
depending on what I can get
and what's in season.
And you're going to go buy
some kaffir lime leaves
when you make this recipe.
And there's probably going
to be that much of them.
And you're going to use two.
So this is a really
good opportunity
to freeze those leaves.
And they stay.
They're just beautiful.
They stay fragrant and lovely.
All right.
So we want a few of them.
I'll pop this back in the
freezer for next time.
Look, I've got a
curry leaves in here.
Check this out.
Still keeping their color.
It's all in here.
I've got frozen bananas.
I've got some frozen
chili in here.
[LAUGHING]
It's good later, you know.
It's just a good
way to have stuff.
OK.
So kaffir lime leaf-- there's
two ways you can do this.
I'm not going to bother.
I mean you can
take the stalk out,
which I just rip like that.
It's no problem, like that.
I just roll it up,
nice and tightly.
And I'm just going to run
my knife through that.
Lovely, bubbly.
Oh.
You can smell that already.
And to this-- so there's
three sections of this dish.
To this I'm going
to add my tomatoes.
This is what's going to
make the paste and the sauce
part of this to be red--
really, really,
really, really red.
So just cutting
roughly, these tomatoes.
If we're going to
be blending 'em,
we just want them to
cook down a little bit.
Our sharp knife.
All right.
The heat from that hot plate,
I can feel that from here.
Actually I can, more
like smell it from here.
Lovely.
OK.
So the next stage is, I'm
going to put some oil on here.
Actually I'm going to put
some oil on my eggplant.
Some coconut oil
might be better,
sort of putting it straight
and directly on the heat.
Even better yet.
OK.
Ah, these are beautiful.
Let that soak in there.
Just do this with it.
Get a bit of a rub, and
then straight onto here.
All right.
Just plopping them down.
Now these will really,
really suck up this oil.
So that's why I choose to just
put it on the eggplant first.
See what happens, aye.
We might have to add more to it.
We'll see what happens.
All right.
Get the rest of
that oil on there.
OK.
The next part of this--
just wash my hands, because
we're a bit oily now.
Actually, it makes
a good moisturizer.
[LAUGHING]
Actually makes a really
good moisturizer.
That's lovely.
Glad I thought of that.
All right.
We need a pan.
Put these aside a bit.
Don't want anything to
burn, all my goodies.
I'm going to cook the rest
of the other ingredients
on this pan.
Now we need some tong, so we
know what we're doing just
here, while this is happening.
Yeah?
We'll just check how
we're going here.
Ah, lovely color.
Lovely.
Oh, they smell good too.
All right.
So a little bit of
coconut oil into this pan.
And we're going to
add our shallot,
garlic, and chili first to this.
And some more salt and pepper--
a little bit of salt and
pepper on there as well.
Not a lot, because
we're going to add that
throughout the blending process.
Ah, it smells good.
Just let that heat up.
You can do this on
a barbecue, yeah.
Actually I do wish I had
a barbecue here in Bali,
doing this outside.
A lovely color.
That's what we're after.
The sugars are really
coming out of there.
That's why things go brown,
yeah, they're caramelizing.
There's natural sugars in these
beautiful, sweet eggplants.
I won't add any
more oil just yet.
It is looking a little
bit dry, but I'm just
going to leave that for a
minute, and let that cook down.
OK.
Now.
We're not after color here.
We're not after color
like here, for here.
We're just after this to
just [WHOOSH SOUND] marry.
Just, you know, release their
flavors and their goodness.
All right.
Bringing in the present moment.
Yeah.
I want that blistering look.
See that?
That's what I'm after.
I want that blistering.
Ah, yum.
This is awesome.
This makes me happy.
OK.
So it's not so hot
at the back there.
I'm going to put one
of these babies there.
Because this is starting
to get a bit floppy,
so I might put this
one at the front there.
So just adjust your eggplant
to where that heat is.
It's really
important to do that.
Because my heat is
just in a circle here.
So I just want to find
what's cooking quicker.
And I'm keeping them-- see
how I'm keeping the stalks on?
Cause just I just want, to show.
And they look good too.
All right.
So now I'm going
to add my onion.
Add my onion, [LAUGHS] my tomato
and my chopped up kaffir lime
leaf on the bottom there.
Ah.
The fragrance is coming
through now, folks.
I wish we had Smell-o-Vision.
All right.
Get that really happening.
Did I lose something there?
Turn that down to a low.
So we just mixed that
really carefully.
Well, carefully as you can.
Ah yeah.
That's great.
And just let that cook.
Bam, bam, everything's
happening.
Fabulous.
Look at that, the water's
started to come out.
This is good.
This is what I'm after.
OK.
Really nice.
Oh.
Happy days.
You know when you flick a
pan, a lot of people go,
I'd like to flick a pan too.
You always push it
down, not too far.
You always push it--
OK.
Push your ingredients to the
front and then pull back.
Front and pull back.
It's funny.
When you become a chef, it's
the first thing you want to do.
You want to master the cutting
fast and flicking the pan.
It's so ego.
It's so much ego,
it's ridiculous.
These are great.
I'm loving the color.
I'm loving everything
about these right now.
I might put this one
at the front here.
This is perfect, perfect.
It starting to split
open, all that gooeyness.
Mmm.
Look at that, bubbling through.
That's what we want.
OK.
The next part of this
recipe is blending.
Now this is hot.
So take it easy, yeah,
when you're blending this.
I'm going to turn this off.
So this is cooked for
about three minutes.
That's enough.
All right.
Be careful, yeah,
cause this is hot.
Just take it easy, getting
it into the Vitamix,
as gracefully as you can.
All right.
And we want to definitely
scrape all this goodness out
from this pan.
Lovely, bubbly.
Yeah, baby.
Now we're going to blend this.
Now, very important.
To the side, yeah,
cause it's hot.
OK, wow.
Look at the color of that.
That's amazing.
All right.
Back on.
Back into the pan.
Oh.
Look at the color of that!
Back to here.
Get that heat back on again.
Really easy here.
OK.
Now this is spicy.
All right.
And look at the color.
This is beautiful.
Now I'm going to taste.
100% needs salt and pepper.
OK.
100%.
And I want to get some more
of those kaffir lime leaves.
I just want that fragrance
of these beautiful leaves--
where are they--
to come through.
Yeah, I'm just
going to get them,
and I'm just going
to scrunch them.
I've got four of
them in my hand here.
Yeah.
That's what I want, that
flavor coming through.
Just let that cook a little bit.
These are looking fabulous--
nice and soft and gooey.
Yeah, that's what we were after.
Really beautiful.
Mmm.
Really lovely.
Very Balinese, this one.
A bit more salt.
Now sometimes,
depending, I like to put
a splash of honey in
there, just because
of that balance of flavors.
Sometimes, and today
is one of those times.
Just a splash.
Nothing big.
Just a little tiny
dribble like that,
toward that little bit of heat.
A little bit sweet coming
through with that heat.
OK.
Have a taste.
Oh, yeah, baby.
All right.
Then I'm just
going to add these.
And I'm just going to bathe
these in this spicy mixture.
And they're just going to sit
in there and do their thing.
It's fabulous.
Really fabulous.
And I would serve that up
in this pan, just like that.
And turn off the heat.
I would totally take
that to the table
and just serve it up like that.
Big bowl of rice,
big bowl of veggies,
potatoes, rice potatoes,
roasted sweet potato,
pumpkin, big salad, big
rice salad with this.
Endless.
This goes with everything.
Take it to a barbecue.
Chop up the eggplant, so
it's like in an condiment.
So this is like
a saucy condiment
to go with all your other isms.
It's just beautiful.
And it's just so--
it's so luxurious, actually.
And especially this
eggplant that's all
oozing and soft and yummy.
And this will just sit in
there for a good 10 minutes.
And these flavors will
just come through.
Look at that.
Ah yeah.
That's good.
Ah, it's got that spice.
Lovely.
That's it.
That's a dish.
Wonderful, wonderful,
wonderful part
of a dinner, especially if
you want that hint of spice.
And that kaffir lime leaf
that's coming through.
It's just beautiful and
fragrant, really gorgeous,
really simple, easy ingredients.
If you can't find these
little babies here,
shallots, don't worry about it.
Use red onion.
You can totally use red onion.
So don't panic.
Enjoy this.
Thank you, Ayu.
Let's thank Ayu.
She gave this recipe to me.
Such a beautiful lady.
Great to pass it on to you all.
This is where we eat.
I'm going to try it.
Oh.
This is so good!
God damn it!
It's beautiful!
Oh.
I'm so happy about that!
Do you want some.
Who wants a big jar
of a green smoothie?
My tap's talking to me.
[LAUGHING]
[DEEP BREATH]
[MUMBLING]
Are you ready?